\begin{titlepage}
\begin{center}

% Upper part of the page. The '~' is needed because \\
% only works if a paragraph has started.

\textsc{\LARGE University of Washington}\\[0.1cm]
\textsc{\LARGE Department of Bioengineering}\\[1.5cm]

\textsc{\Large Qualifying Examination}\\[0.5cm]

% Title
{ \LARGE \bfseries Arterial Calcification Due to CD73 Deficiency: Investigating Mechanism and Treatment }\\[2.0cm]

\vfill

% Bottom of the page
% Author and supervisor
\begin{minipage}{0.2\textwidth}
\begin{flushleft} \large
\emph{Author:}\\
Stanley \textsc{Gu}
\end{flushleft}
\end{minipage}
\begin{minipage}{0.7\textwidth}
\begin{flushright} \large
\emph{Committee:} \\
Dr.~James \textsc{Bassingthwaighte} (Chair) \\
Dr.~Daniel \textsc{Cook} \\
Dr.~Herbert \textsc{Sauro} (Advisor) \\
Dr.~Paul \textsc{Wiggins} \\
\end{flushright}
\end{minipage}

\vspace{3cm}
{\large May 10, 2013}

\end{center}
\end{titlepage}

\tableofcontents

\newpage

# Abstract and Specific Aims

Vascular calcification in both the intima and media of vessels is associated
with increase risk for cardiac events and mortality. Given the significant
clinical impact of arterial calcification, the mechanism and genetic basis
behind its clinical presentation has been a subject of intense study.

Recently, the human gene NT5E that encodes CD73, the enzyme responsible for
converting extracellular AMP to adenosine, has been implicated as a key
component behind the metabolic pathway for inhibiting medial vascular
calcification. Individuals with mutations in NT5E result in a disease phenotype
of arterial calcification and distal joint calcification (ACDC). Preliminary
research has suggested that dysfunctional adenosine signaling and pyrophosphate
depletion are responsible for the onset of ACDC. However, the lack of
systematic and quantitative studies on all the key components involved in the
disease pathway has hampered development of effective treatments.

Here we propose research to systematically investigate the roles of key
biomolecular players in ACDC pathobiology and employ quantitative modeling to
define the biological mechanisms and enable the rational design of treatment
options for this disease. The methodology developed through this research is
expected to provide insights to the mechanism of vascular calcification and
treatment of related diseases.

## Specific Aim 1: **Determine Mechanism of Arterial Calcification Due to
CD73-Deficiency**

An *in vitro* model consisting of vascular smooth muscle cells, will serve as a
platform for running molecular biology experiments for mechanistic exploration
and model building. Through review of the current literature, several surface
bound enzymes, such as ENPP1 and TNAP, were identified as major components
contributing to biological processes leading to mineralization of the arterial
wall, and will also be incorporated in the working mechanistic hypothesis. A
metabolic profile will be created of the ACDC phenotype through quantifying
surface enzyme activity and steady state extracellular concentrations of key
metabolites. The role of adenosine signaling in the dysregulation of TNAP, a
characteristic of ACDC, will be explored through the interrogation of adenosine
receptor classes. The combination of metabolic profiling and cell signaling
investigation is expected to elucidate the ACDC pathobiology and enable further
research on therapeutic interventions.

## Specific Aim 2:  **Build Pharmacodynamic Models of different
Therapeutic Strategies and Evaluate Synergistic Potential for Combination
Therapies**

Four different theurapeutic strategies, adenosine receptor agonism,
pyrophosphate supplementation, adenosine uptake suppression, and TNAP
inhibition, will be characterized and quantified in the form of pharmacodynamic
(PD) models. The models will be built from *in vitro* experimental data
exploring the effects of calcification reduction related to drug exposure.
Furthermore, a combination therapy approach will be investigated for the
potential to maximize relief of disease burden while minimizing undesired
off-target effects. Drug interaction experimentation and modeling will lead to
integrative PD models that can serve as the basis for whole animal dose
selection and treatment planning.

## Specific Aim 3: **Assess Therapeutic Outcomes in an ACDC Mouse Model Guided
by Pharmacokinetic-Pharmacodynamic Modeling**

A pharmacokinetic (PK) model of drug uptake and clearance will be built from
*in vivo* data. The resulting model will be coupled to the PD model established
in Aim 2, forming an integrated PK-PD model. The PK-PD model will guide dose
selection and therapy planning for whole animal investigation of treatment. *In
vivo* assessment of efficacy in devised treatment plans will be performed. The
results are expected to be a basis for developing therapies in human ACDC
patients.

# Exam Question

William Gahl, the NIH sleuth who has identified a number of rare diseases,
recently found that deletion of the gene NT5E led to calcification in leg
arteries, to arterial insufficiency, and to inability to walk. The gene codes
for an ecto-5'-nucleotidase, CD73. Write a proposal to support research to
define the mechanisms by which the genetic abnormality causes the disease, and
to find out how one can treat the disease [@StHilaire2011].

# Background

## Significance

NT5E mutations leading to CD73-deficiency and the ACDC condition is a serious
disease burden, impairing mobility and causing great pain for those affected,
for which there is no accepted treatment option. While the initial discovery
and investigations [@StHilaire2011;@Markello2011] of this disease has provided
valuable insights on some of the biomolecular players involved, highly
systematic and quantiative studies have been lacking to fully describe the
pathobiological mechanism in detail and allow for rational design of
therapeutic plans.

Therefore, the purpose of this research is to address the knowledge gaps in the
understanding of ACDC progression as well as provide insight on courses of
treatment. Molecular biology experimentation and quantative systems modeling
will be the tools used in this approach for building understanding of the
disease and gaining confidence in reasonable approaches to combat the disease.
Furthermore, the biological knowledge gained and modeling approaches used in
this work is expected to be useful for understanding other ectopic
calcification diseases.

## Vascular Calcification

Vascular calcification is the process in which hydroxyapatite (HA) mineral
deposits are formed in the walls of blood vessels. Arterial calcification is a
well-defined risk factor in significantly increased patient mortality.
[@Shaw2003; @Chiu2010; @Blacher2001; @London2003] While once thought to be a
passive process of deposition due to elevated electrolyte imbalances in the
blood, vessel calcification has been discovered to be an active process that is
similar to bone formation and remodeling [@Bostrom1993; @Giachelli1993;
@Ding2006].

Calcification can occur in either the media (vessel walls) or intima (vessel
lumen). Intimal vascular calcification (IVC) is frequently seen in conditions
related to atheroschlerosis [@Nakamura2009]. Medial vascular calcification
(MVC), also known as Monckeberg's arteriosclerosis, increases in prevalence for
populations with greater age, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease,
chronic inflammation, and genetic disorders [@Micheletti2008].

While the subject of arterial calcification is a large and diverse field, the
focus of this background will be on the possible biological mechanisms of
interest behind the NT5E mutation phenotype. Additional reviews on the
pathobiology behind arterial calcification have been published and are
referenced here [@Demer2008; @Giachelli2004].

## Arterial Calcification due to Deficiency of CD73 (ACDC)

Ecto-5'-nucleotidase (CD73) is located on the surface of the plasma membrane
and hydrolyzes adenosine monophosphate (AMP) to adenosine (ADO) [@Zimmermann1992].
Due to the broad range of AMP and adenosine involvement in biological
processes, the CD73 function is implicated in a variety of pathological
conditions, including immunodeficiency [@Deaglio2007], inflammation
[@Colgan2006], and ectopic calcification [@Kathiresan2012].

\begin{SCfigure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{images/acdc-sthilare.png}
		\caption{Radiographs of popliteal arteries of individuals from three
		different families. A similar phenotype is seen from the three distinct
		NT5E mutation types. ACDC is a painful condition that impairs mobility
		of the limbs. Symptoms typically begin when patients are in their 20s
		and progresses with age.\label{fig:acdc}} 
\end{SCfigure}

Using a genome-wide homozygosity mapping approach, nonsense, missense, and
frameshift mutations in the NT5E gene, coding for CD73, have been discovered to
cause MVC of the limbs and joints in otherwise healthy individuals. The disease
phenontype was exhibited in patients who were homozygous for the defective
gene, with the onset of symptoms occuring around age 20 and becoming more
severe with age, causing significant pain and discomfort in walking. The study
by @StHilaire2011 demonstrated that cultured fibroblasts from the patients were
deficient in the CD73 activity, hydrolyzing AMP into adenosine and inorganic
phosphate. It was also shown to be restored in these cells through
CD73-deliverying viral vectors.

## Exploring Possible Mechanisms Behind ACDC

In determining the mechanism of ACDC, the literature was reviewed for related
enzymes and metabolites that are related to the pathobiology of MVC (Figure
\ref{fig:mechanism}). The process of bone formation by osteoblasts is
closely resembled by the induced osteoblast-like smooth muscle cells that cause
MVC [@Neven2011]. Furthremore, insight into the pathological mechanism has come
from numerous independent genetic studies that discovered other biomolecular
defects in rare monogenetic disorders [@Nitschke2012a].

\begin{SCfigure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{images/mechanism.png}
		\caption{\label{fig:mechanism} Hypothetical mechanism for
		calcification regulation by CD73 activity. On the surface of vascular
		cells, ENPP1 converts ATP to AMP and PP\textsubscript{i}, an inhibitor
		of calcification. Further downstream, CD73 produces adenosine and
		P\textsubscript{i} from AMP. TNAP coverts PP\textsubscript{i} to
		P\textsubscript{i}, promoting calcification. Adenosine signaling to the
		cell is an inhibitor of TNAP expression. Thus, when CD73 activity is
		deficient, adenosine signaling drops, TNAP inhibition releases, and
		PP\textsubscript{i} levels deplete from TNAP over-activity.}
\end{SCfigure}

### Tissue-Nonspecific Alkaline Phosphatase (TNAP)

A key enzyme related to calcification, TNAP, was found to be significantly
overexpressed on the surface of CD73-deficient cells, which could be reduced to
normal levels through adenosine supplementation *in vitro*. TNAP plays a key
regulatory role in maintaining proper levels of inorganic pyrophosphate (PP~i~)
and phosphate (P~i~) through the hydrolysis of PP~i~ into P~i~ [@Millan2006].
The ratio of PP~i~ to P~i~ is crucial in controlling the formation of HA
crystals [@Lomashvili2004], one of the primary constituents of bone and product
of arterial calcification. PP~i~ inhibits the deposition of P~i~ and calcium on
to growth sites in HA crystals, however, when PP~i~ levels fall to abnormal
low, ectopic calcification results [@Narisawa2004;@Hessle2002].

The under-expression of TNAP activity also has deleterious effects. In both
humans [@Henthorn1992] and mice [@Anderson2004] with defects in TNAP
expression, the result is fatality soon after birth. In the TNAP knockout mice,
there was normal HA formation containing matrix vesicles that are released by
osteoblasts, however, extracellular mineralization was impaired due to elevated
PP~i~ levels (Figure \ref{mice-tnap-knockout}).

\begin{SCfigure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{images/mice-tnap-knockout.png}
		\caption{Impaired bone formation in TNAP knockout mice (B) compared to
		wildtype mice (A). During early development, the lack of TNAP results
		in excessive extracellular PP\textsubscript{i} and inhibits
		mineralization. Anderson et al. 2004\label{mice-tnap-knockout}} 
\end{SCfigure}

### Ectonucleotide Pyrophosphatase/Phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) and ANK

The tiptoe-walking mouse (*ttw/ttw*) was used for many years as a disease model
to study calcification of ligaments. @Okawa1998 showed that the phenotype was
due to a mutation in the gene encoding for ENPP1. ENPP1 is a major
physiological generator of extracellular PP~i~ through hydrolyzing ATP.
[@Kato2012] The loss in capacity for PP~i~ to potently inhibit HA formation
results in severe MVC, beginning in infancy. ENPP1 knockout mice recapitulated
the *ttw/ttw* phenotype. Consequently, defects in ENPP1 for humans were
discovered to cause generalized arterial calcification of infancy (GACI).
Treatment with bisphosphonates [@Ramjan2009], a PP~i~ analog, can reverse the
course of disease. Interestingly, it has been shown that stopping
bisphosphonate supplementation at the age of 2 still allows for healthy
development [@Edouard2011], which is perhaps a result of other compensatory
mechanisms in maintaining systemic balance of PP~i~/P~i~.

Mutations in the gene ANKH (ANK in mice) also result in a similar disease
phenotype [@Nurnberg2001]. Apart from ENPP1, ANKH is the other contributor of
PP~i~ in the extracellular environment by transporting intracellular PP~i~.

### ATP-binding Cassette Sub-Family C Member 6 (ABCC6) and Role of Adenosine Signaling

@StHilaire2011 discovered that by supplementing CD73 deficient cells with
adenosine, TNAP overexpression can be brought back down to normal levels.
Subsequently, the levels of calcification detected *in vitro* were notably
reduced. This finding suggests that delivering adenosine, which is the missing
product from CD73, may lead to the rescue of the ACDC condition.
[@Rutsch2011;@Nitschke2012] Dysfunctional adenosine production was also
suggested to be the consequence of ABCC6 mutations [@Markello2011] that cause
pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE), a disease that shares similar manifestations to
ACDC [@LeSaux2000]. However, later studies [@Leftheriotis2011;@LeSaux2012]
showed that ABBC6 does not transport adenosine, and suggests that its role may
be more complex. Evidence shows that a yet to be discovered substrate, or
substrates, is transported systemically into serum, which prevents ectopic
calcification [@LeSaux2006]. Interestingly, mutations in ENPP1 or ABCC6 can
lead to PXE-like symptoms [@Nitschke2012], which further suggests that the
mechanisms behind these diseases are inter-related.

Focusing back on the adenosine-supplementation recovery in CD73-deficient
cells, the mechanism in which adenosine apparently suppresses TNAP is not yet
known. All adenosine receptors (AR) are G-Protein Coupled Receptors (GPCR) and
one of four different pharmacological classes ($A_1$, $A_{2A}$, $A_{2B}$, and
$A_3$), each implicated in a wide range of biological processes in the body
[@Hasko2008].

# Experimental Design and Methods
## Overview

The main focuses of this research plan is to elucidate the mechanism and
propose treatment for ACDC using a systematic and quantitative approach (Figure
\ref{fig:overview}). While tremendous work has been already done to discover
this disease and provide some preliminary hypotheses on the biological
processes involved, detailed studies are still lacking regarding the surface
protein expression, extracellular environment, and pathological mechanism of
ACDC vascular cells. While the current working hypothesis implicates several
surface proteins, such as ENPP1, the expression levels were not measured. Even
less known are the extracellular metabolite concentrations. The mechanism of
adenosine signaling is also not clear. The current hypothesis suggests that
PP~i~ depletion is the calcification mechanism, however, PP~i~ levels have not
yet been measured in CD73 -/- cells. Aim 1 is expected to provide the missing
details to form a more complete picture of ACDC affected cells.

In moving towards treatment development, Aim 2 will build the first catalog of
quantiative pharmacodynamic (PD) models using multiple targets for the ACDC
pathway. Furthermore, combinatorial PD models will be produced to optimize for
treatment potential and highlight any knowledge gaps in the target pathway. Aim
3 proposes to produce the first ACDC animal model and rescue of the ACDC
condition through a rationally designed therapy regime devised from
pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) modeling.

\begin{SCfigure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=.8\textwidth]{images/overview.png}
		\caption{\label{fig:overview}Overview of Specific Aims outlining
		overall purpose, approach, and focus of each Aim. Scale indicates
		if research is conducted on the cell, tissue (collections of cells), or
		organism level.}
\end{SCfigure}

While to some degree, each of these aims can be performed in parallel,
methodology from each Aim will facilitate and strengthen the discoveries of the
others. We view it as an advantage that these Aims can be performed partially
in parallel, which could lead to faster discovery and course correction of the
research plan based on initial findings.

## Specific Aim 1
### Strategy and Rationale

While review of the literature has a provided thus far a consistent hypothesis,
based on PP~i~ depletion caused by adenosine signal disruption, Aim 1 will
pursue further molecular biology experiments to support or invalidate the
working model.

The disease model consisting of the CD73 -/- knockout mouse will be the source
of primary VSMCs used for *in vitro* experimentation. This is selection was
chosen in order to minimize the inconsistencies between species and different
cell types across the experimental plans.

This Aim will first start by characterizing the key metabolic information that
is currently missing. While the methodology focused upon in this section are
low-throughput and are designed to measure specifically the metabolites of
interest, there is a possibility of switching to higher-throughput methods used
in metabolomics [@Beckonert2007]. This could allow for the profiling of many
more metabolites. Similarly, a more proteomic [@Sleno2008] approach may be used
to measure proteins in a higher-throughput manner. However, the underlying
strategy for the experimental planning in this proposal is to start with the
simplest approaches first and add complexity when needed.

The approach for determining the adenosine (ADO) signaling mechanism, Figure
\ref{fig:signaling}, was selected to systematically narrow down the adenosine
receptor (AR) of interest. There are four pharmacological classes of (ARs),
A~1~, A~2A~, A~2B~, and A~3~. Toward the goal of developing a potential
therapeutic through replacement of the missing ADO signal, it is necessary to
identify the specific AR which, when activated, inhibits TNAP expression. This
also will lead to better understanding of the potential biological
repercussions and off-target effects involved. Combinations of AR agonist (ARA)
and AR antagonists (ARANT) will pinpoint the receptor class responsible for
regulating MVC. Additionally, dipyridamole, a potent inhibitor of ADO uptake by
the cell [@Hayashi1985], will be used to determine if ADO signaling is due to
intracellular ADO uptake. Dipyridamole will also be used in Aim 2 as a
therapeutic and possible adjuvant therapy.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{images/ado-signaling.png}
		\caption{\label{fig:signaling} Components in determining ADO signaling
		mechanism in ACDC. SLC29 is a transport protein that moves
		extracellular ADO into the cytosol. ADO uptake by SLC29 is inhibited by
		dipyridamole. A1, A2A, A2B, and A3 are the four major classifications
		of GPCRs triggered by ADO. Each receptor is triggered by its respective
		ARA and inhibited by its respective ARANT. These components together
		allow for experimental probing to pinpoint the exact adenosine
		signaling mechanism that regulates TNAP expression.}
\end{figure}

### Experimental Plan

#### Establish *In Vitro* Model of ACDC and Healthy Controls

Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) will be isolated and cultured
[@mahabeleshwar2007methods] from distal arteries of C57BL/6J mice. Medial
tissues will be separated from surgically excised vasculature [@Jono2000].
Small pieces of tissue (1 to 2 mm^3^) will be digested overnight in DMEM
supplemented collagenase type I, elastase type III, and soybean trypsin
inhibitor at 37^$\circ$^ C. The single cell suspensions will then be cultured
for several weeks in DMEM supplemented with fetal bovine serum (FBS). The
purity of the cultures will be assessed by immunostaining for $\alpha$-actin
and calponin, positive indicators for smooth muscle cells [@Liaw1995]. VSMCs
will be routinely subcultured in growth medium. For running experiments, VSMCs
will be grown to confluency, trypsinized, counted (Invitrogen Automated Cell
Counter), and redispersed on to microtiter plates. These cells will serve as
the health control VSMCs.

CD73 -/- knockout mice will be purchased from The Jackson Laboratory
(<http://jaxmice.jax.org/>) which contain mutations in the NT5E/CD73 gene
coding for the enzyme's catalytic site [@Knofel1999]. This same mouse model
will be the *in vivo* CD73 -/- model used in Aim 3. VSMCs will be isolated and
cultured from this knockout model in a similar procedure as above.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

While VSMC cell cultures have previously been established from *ex vivo* human
aorta [@Jono2000], using the similar process in mouse VSMC cell culture may
prove difficult due to the drastically reduced amount of "seed" tissue that can
be extracted from each specimen to start the colony. Collecting tissue from
multiple specimens may be necessary to initiate a sustainable culture. Other
cell types may be used for *in vitro* experiments, @StHilaire2011 used human
fibroblasts directly from CD73 -/- patients. However, the selection of mouse
VSMCs that come from the same mouse strain is desired because it will likely be
the closest extrapolation between cell experiments and whole animal procedures.

#### Quantify Surface Enzyme Expression

The relative expression levels of ENPP1, CD73, and TNAP will be determined
through Western blot and real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). These
measures will create an expression-level profile of healthy and ACDC VSMCs.
Cells will be trypsinized, lysed in the presence of protease inhibitor (Roche),
centrifuged, and the supernatent protein quantified via the bicinchoninic acid
assay (Pierce). A fixed amount of protein will be mixed with SDS protein gel
loading solution, run on a polyacrylamide gel, and electrophoresed. After the
transfer of proteins, antibodies against ENPP1, CD73, TNAP, and actin
(baseline) will be used for quantification.

RNA will be isolated from VSMCs through the use of the RNeasy kit (Qiagen), and
complimentary DNA for each of the three enzymes, along with 18S RNA as a qPCR
normalizer. Expression levels will be calculated by comparing the cycling
threshold compared with the normalizer (PCR Detection System, BioRad).

ENPP1 and TNAP enzyme activity on the cell surface will be assayed using
colorimetric substrates, p-nitrophenyl thymidine 5'-monophosphate and nitro
blue tetrazolium/5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate, respectively (Sigma)
[@Nam2011]. After one hour incubation, the ENPP1 reaction will be stopped by
addition of NaOH, and the absorbance through the well measured at 405 nm. The
TNAP reaction will be stopped by washing with H~2~O and air drying. TNAP
activity will be quantified via microscopic densitometry with image analysis
software. CD73 activity will be quantified as according to @StHilaire2011.
VSMCs will be washed with 2 mM magnesium chloride, 120 mM sodium chloride, 5 mM
potassium chloride, 10 mM glucose, and 20 mM HEPES. Incubation buffer,
consisting of the wash solution supplemented with 2 mM AMP, will be added, and
the cells incubated at 37^$\circ$^ C for 10 minutes. Inorganic phosphate will
be measured with the SensoLyte MG Phosphate Assay Kit (AnaSpec). Inorganic
phosphate measurements will be normalized to protein levels.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

The expression levels of TNAP will be expected to be much higher than normal,
which was shown in fibroblasts by @StHilaire2011. Functional CD73 levels should
be non-existent in the NT5E mutant cells. The working hypothesis of this
proposal is that adenosine signaling is significantly reduced by the lack of
CD73 function, which inhibits expression of TNAP. ENPP1 levels have not been
reported to change with CD73 mutation, so any differences in expression would
be an interesting finding. Different ENPP1 levels may indicate that the
excessive extracellular AMP that is left unconsumed by CD73 may play a
signaling role as well. While AMP has mostly been reported as merely a
precursor to adenosine signaling, orphan GPCRs have been discovered [@Inbe2004]
that can respond to both AMP and adenosine.

The enzyme RNA expression levels are expected to correspond with extracellular
activity. Discrepancies in these measures may indicate that adenosine signaling
has some effect on surface protein recycling or expression. These measurements
will be taken again during adenosine agonist addition to further investigate.

In addition to the surface enzymes of primary interest, the levels of proteins
and transcription factors related to bone regulation, such as osteopontin,
matrix gla protein, Cbfa1/RUNX2, and MSX-2 [@Moe2008] may also be measured to
fully characterize the CD73 -/- phenotype in relation to these other regulator
factors. Findings from this work could also lead to additional therapeutic
targets.

#### Establish Extracellular Metabolite Profile of ACDC Versus Disease Cells

The substrates and products in the hypothesized metabolic pathway involved in
ACDC are ATP, AMP, ADO, PPi, and Pi. Steady state metabolite profiles of ACDC
and control cell types will provide insight to the pathobiology of this
condition. MVC occurs through HA crystal formation, which is dependent on
extracellular concentrations of chemical species, especially PP~i~.

Cell cultures will be allowed to reach steady state metabolite levels over 24
hours after media change. Sequential readings will be taken to ensure that 24
hours is sufficient time to reach steady state values.

Nucleotides ATP, AMP, and ADO will be measured using high-performance liquid
chromatography (HPLC) and enzymatic assays as described in @Ciancaglini2010.
PP~i~ will be measured enzymatically [@Lomashvili2004] by sampling the
extracellular media. As in the CD73 activity assay, P~i~ will be measured using
the SensoLyte MG Phosphate Assay Kit (AnaSpec).

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

One of the key metabolite levels to be determined is PP~i~. The working
hypothesis is that ACDC is the result of depressed PP~i~ due to increased TNAP
expression. It has been shown that healthy *ex vivo* rat VSMCs after 3 days of
culture generate PP~i~ endogenously to reach a level of 0.44 $\mu$M in medium,
without any addition of PP~i~ [@Lomashvili2004]. Depletion of PP~i~ resulted in
spontaneous calcification. In injured aortic cultures, higher levels of
pyrophosphate, 5-10 $\mu$M was shown to inhibit calcification, although these
high levels necessary for calcification inhibition is likely necessary due to
increased TNAP expression in injured tissue. In healthy humans, 3.26 +/- 0.17
$\mu$M serum levels of PP~i~ were measured [@Lomashvili2005]. Thus, it will be
expected that normal VSMCs will equilibrate with the media at around 1 $\mu$M
PP~i~, whereas CD73 -/- VSMCs will be significantly less. Failing to find
decreased levels of PP~i~ could suggest that disrupted regulator of
mineralization could be a different HA inhibitor, such as osteopontin
[@Sapir-Koren2011].

Differences in other metabolite concentrations would suggest other compensatory
mechanisms may be upregulated and could direct further experiments to shed
light on the discrepancy.

##### Combinatorial Probing of Adenosine Receptors with Agonists

One of the key goals in this Aim is to elucidate the role of adenosine
signaling for regulating TNAP expression. A combinatorial approach of
activating a single class of AR, while inhibiting all others, will be used.
Four adenosine receptor agonists (ARAs) will be selected (CPA, CGS21680, BAY
60-6583, and IB-MECA) and four adenosine receptor antagonists (ARANTs) (DPCPX,
CSC, MRS1754, and MRS1220) will be used to selectively investigate A~1~, A~2A~,
A~2B~, and A~3~ effects on TNAP expression, respectively [@Hasko2008]. Each ARA
will be incubated at its EC95 value on a microtiter plate with three ARANTs
onboard, at their IC95 values, for the other AR types. This will be performed
for control and CD73 -/- VSMCs.  TNAP activity levels will be quantified at
time 0, 12 hours, 1 day, 3 days, and 5 days.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

ARs have a wide range of physiological effects when stimulated. Identifying the
specific activation site for TNAP repression will greatly aid in the
development of a treatment for ACDC. While it is possible that any of the four
ARs may be responsible for a signal cascade that regulates TNAP, A~2B~ is
probably an unlikely candidate as it a low affinity AR, and is usually only
triggered at extremely high physiological levels of adenosine release, such as
in the case of cell apoptosis. A~1~ and A~3~ decrease whereas A~2~ increases
intracellular cAMP. Tying TNAP expression to cAMP would add it a long list of
regulatory functions by cAMP.

Since AR siginaling is an active field of study for many biomedical
indications, there is a plethora of ARAs and ARANTs that may be used as
alternatives if there are difficulties in eliciting a response measured by TNAP
repression. In the event there is no response from ARAs, the next step in the
experimental plan is to explore other mechanisms where ADO can affect enzyme
expression.

#### Search for Additional Adenosine Signaling Mechanisms

If TNAP regulation is controlled by a means other than through the four known
ARs, it is possible that either transport of adenosine directly into the
cytosol via SLC29 is the mechanism of action or through agonism of a yet to be
identified receptor. To explore these possibilities, VSMCs will be incubated
with inhibitors of all known ARs at high enough concentrations to reasonably
block any ADO binding. Then, cells will be incubated with or without
dipyridamole, an inhibitor of ADO uptake, and additional ADO. TNAP expression will be
measured at time 0, 12 hours, 1, 3, and 5 days.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

If TNAP suppression is observed in the absence of dipyridamole, and not in its
presence, this would suggest that the direct transport of adenosine into the
cell is responsible for regulating TNAP. And, that the ultimate fate of CD73
produced adenosine extracellularly is to be transported back into the cell.  If
TNAP suppression is observed equally withough regard to dipyridamole, it could
suggest that another unknown AR is being triggered.

A possibly more exotic result is the lack of any response after blocking the
four known AR classes. It could mean that a combination of two or more AR triggers
are necessary for TNAP regulation.

## Specific Aim 2

### Strategy and Rationale

The overarching purpose behind this proposed research is to gain enough
knowledge on ACDC pathobiology and potential therapies in order to rapidly
bring treatment options to patients. This Aim will build from the
mechanistic understanding of ACDC obtained from Aim 1 and rationally design
potential therapies in a combined experimental and quantitative modeling
approach.

Due to the lack of PD data in reversing medial calcification, the task for this
Aim is to build PD models from dose-effect experiments using an assortment of
strategically selected drug compounds and their use in combination.

While PD models can be built from *in vitro* or *in vivo* experimental data, an
*in vitro* approach was selected because of the large number of experimental
conditions that need to be tested in order to generate single and combinatorial
drug dosing data for PD modeling. Cell-based assays are more amenable to
enhancement with high-throughput techniques compared to live animal
experiments. Thus, since time needed for data generation is likely to be a
bottleneck, PD experiments will be done using the VSMC model built in Aim 1.

PD is the study of the effect a drug has on a biological system, as opposed to
PK, which focuses on the effect the body has on the drug. In building a PD
model, the general approach will be to design a methodology for deliverying
dosages at different concentrations and select a way to measure its effect. One
common way to model this relationship between dose and drug effect is using the
Hill Equation (Equation \ref{eq:hill}), where $E$ is the observed drug effect,
$E_{max}$ is the maximum observable drug effect, $C$ is the drug concentration,
and $n$ is the Hill coefficient (Figure \ref{fig:pd}).

\begin{equation}\label{eq:hill}
E = \frac{E_{max}^nC^n}{EC_{50}+C^n}
\end{equation}

\begin{SCfigure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{images/pd.png}
		\caption{\label{fig:pd}A Hill-type PD curve for modeling dose response
		from empirical data, based on Equation \ref{eq:hill}. The parameters
		that tune the characteristics of this curve are $E_{max}$, $EC_{50}$,
		and $n$. $E_{max}$ is the concentration that produces half of the
		maximal effect. $E_{max}$ is the maximal effect for the system. $n$ is
		the Hill coefficient, which affects the steepness of the curve.}
\end{SCfigure}

Toward the goal of producing treatment options, this study will focus on drugs
that are already used for other indications, rather than create an entirely new
drug or biologic. Four different pharmacological strategies will be
investigated for ACDC therapy: AR signaling, TNAP inhibition, PP~i~
supplementation, and adenosine uptake blockage. The ARA identified in Aim 1 will be
used to induce the adenosine signaling pathway for the inhibition of TNAP
expression. Lansoprazole, an inhibitor of TNAP activity [@Delomenede2009], will
be used to bind to the TNAP-PP~i~ complex and reduce PP~i~ hydrolysis. PP~i~
will be supplemented through treatment with bisphosphonates [@Fleisch1998],
PP~i~ analogs that are highly resistant to hydrolysis by TNAP. Adenosine uptake
by the cell will be inhibited with dipyridamole [@Hayashi1985], thus allowing
for increased residence time and signaling of extracellular adenosine.

As the case with many complex diseases, such as cancer, often times a
one-gene-one-drug target approach is ineffective in perturbing the system
enough to get much therapeutic benefit [@Fitzgerald2006]. Arterial
calcification involves many physiological processes and is characterized by
redundancy and homeostasis. Combination therapy may be highly advantageous for
1) lowering the doses of drugs with non-overlapping toxicity and similar
efficacy leading to greater safety, 2) sensitize cells to the action of a drug
through the use of another drug, and 3) exploiting additive or
greater-than-additive effects to achieve higher potency. Thus, PD effects for
these four approaches will be studied in combination.

The mechanism of action for these different therapeutic strategies are
complementary to each other and additive or *synergistic* (more than additive).
Two common models for predicting the additive response of a combination
therapy, *Loewe additivity* [@loewe1953problem] and *Bliss independence*
[@bliss1956calculation]. In Loewe additivity, the relative effect of each
compound is added together in equipotent dose ratios. A trivial case of Loewe
additivity is when the multiple compounds are actually the same drug. The
assumption in Loewe additivity is that the mechanisms of action are mutually
exclusive, for example, two ligands that can fit the same receptor, but both
can not be bound at the same time. In Bliss independence, the assumption is
that the two effects act through independent mechanisms, and thus the combined
effect is a union of the two probabilistically independent events. Thus, the
relative effects are multiplied. When results are different from either of
these two applications, the combined effect is either antagonistic (less than
expected) or synergistic (more than expected). Vertical synergy refers to the
increased effect given the same relative dosage, and horizontal synergy refers
to the decreased dosage necessary to achieve the same effect.

Figure \ref{fig:combination} shows a simple simulated example of additivity and
synergy, which illustrates the possible results from the proposed combination
PD experiments and how they may be analyzed. The simple linear pathway is shown
in Figure \ref{fig:combination}(a,b). Figure \ref{fig:combination}(c,d) show
the effect of two mutually exclusive inhibitors, which is consistent with the
Loewe additivity prediction generated from each of the inhibitors acting alone.
Figure \ref{fig:combination}(e,f) shows mutually non-exclusive inhibition,
where both inhibitors can bind to the receptor. While Bliss independence might
be a reasonable assumption in this case, the result in this case is synergy.
Bliss independence treats the double binding as redundant, but the net effect
is that enzyme activity is inhibited for longer times due to cooperative
suppression by the two inhibitors. Figure \ref{fig:combination}(g-j) shows the
efficacy surfaces from plotting the two dosages. This demonstrates how this
synergistic effect can great increase the therapeutic window for efficacy while
remaining below toxicity thresholds.

These simulated results illustrates the rationale behind pursuing this
combinatorial approach and the methods that will be used to determine the
effect of the combination. Furthermore, while the mechanism in the simulated
example is explicitly known and our experimental approach is more of a black
box, the results from combination experiments can serve to support or refine our
current mechanistic understanding.

It is clear that without proper planning, running combination studies can be
very labor intensive. Therefore, individual PD experiments will be performed
first, and dosages will be evenly sampled from the dynamic range of the
compound, a process resembling the Latin Hypercube method [@Marino2008].

\begin{figure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{images/combination.png}
		\caption{\label{fig:combination} Example of additivity and synergy with
		dual inhibitors acting on the same pathway. \textbf{(a)} Regulatory
		scheme of a single linear pathway. Inhibitors I\textsubscript{1} and
		I\textsubscript{2} or I\textsubscript{1} and I\textsubscript{3} act on
		the same target molecule, receptor B. \textbf{(b)} A simplified
		reaction scheme for \textbf{a}. Binding of the second inhibitor either
		prevents inhibitor I\textsubscript{1} from binding (I\textsubscript{1},
		mutually exclusive model) or does not affect binding of
		I\textsubscript{1} (I\textsubscript{3}, mutually nonexclusive model).
		\textbf{(c,d)} Simulated dose-response curves, in which C is activated
		by A in the presence of inhibitor I\textsubscript{1},
		I\textsubscript{2} or the combination. The mutually exclusive
		combination follows the Loewe additivity model, confirming the
		assumption of a similar mode of action. \textbf{(e,f)} Simulated
		dose-response curves, in which C is activated by A in the presence of
		inhibitor I\textsubscript{1}, I\textsubscript{3} or the combination.
		The mutually nonexclusive combination inhibited activation of C to a
		greater extent than the expected Bliss independence curve. The enhanced
		sequestering of B into a long-lasting nonactive triplex
		[I\textsubscript{1}:I\textsubscript{3}:B] was responsible for the
		synergistic effect on activation of C. \textbf{(g-j)} Response surfaces for
		the mutually nonexclusive inhibitors from a checkerboard of 400 dose
		pairs: Loewe additivity \textbf{(g)}, Bliss independence \textbf{(h)}
		and the simulated combination \textbf{(i)}. Hypothetical toxic dose
		(TD) thresholds limit the amount of inhibition the inhibitors can
		achieve individually. In combination, the inhibitors achieve
		hypothetical therapeutic efficacy (95\% inhibition, marked as *) without
		reaching the TD. The region of synergistic inhibition was highlighted
		by subtracting the inhibition in i from the Bliss independence surface,
		identifying a sweet spot where the extra inhibition exceeded 50\%
		\textbf{(j)}. (Fitzgerald et al. 2006)}
\end{figure}

### Experimental Plan

#### Develop Pharmacodynamic Models of Multiple Drug Targets

An *in vitro* system will be used to characterize the PD effects of ARA,
lanzoprazole, dipyridamole, and bisphosphonate. Varying concentrations of each
drug will be administered on to cell cultures daily. At the end of day 21,
cells will be washed with phosphate-buffered saline and fixed with 10% formalin
for 10 minutes. After washing with water, calcium phosphate crystals will be
stained with alizarin red S and calcification levels will be quantified with
using microscopy and image analysis.

The data points of observed calcification levels versus dosage of drug used
will be fitted against the parameters found in Equation \ref{eq:hill}. Since
the untreated CD73 -/- cells are expected serve as a high control, data points
will be subtracted from the control base level before fitting with nonlinear
parameter optimization software (NONMEM).

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

The observed drug effects on calcification are expected to form a dose-response
curve that will fit a Hill-type equation (Figure \ref{fig:pd}). The result
should be a predictive model of 21-day dosing effects for each of the
compounds. If fitting the parameters proves to be a significant challenge,
different software packages may be used to perform fitting.

Model fitting could prove difficult if experimental data is far too noisy or
unreliable, which would suggest that the experimental protocol should be
refined to provide reproducible results that ideally would mimic the onboarding
of therapeutic on to VSMCs in live animals. The Latin Hypercube method
[@Marino2008] will be used to quantify the uncertainty in model predictions.
Thus, bounds can be placed on the PD model predictions and experimental
reproducibility.

#### Explore Potential Synergistic Effects of Combination Therapy

Each of the four therapeutics, ARA, bisphosphonate, dipyridamole, and
lansoprazole, will be investigated pairwise for combinatorial PD effects in a
manner that is similar to determining the PD for a single compound. The
concentrations selected will be evenly sampled from the dynamic range of the
single compound PD models.

Drug combination will be evaluated for presence antagonism (negative
interaction), additive (no interaction), or synergy (positive interaction)
using the *combination index* metric (Equation \ref{eq:comboIndex}).

\begin{equation}\label{eq:comboIndex}
    \text{Combination Index} = \frac{[CI_1]_{X\%}}{[I_1]_{X\%}} + \frac{[CI_2]_{X\%}}{[I_2]_{X\%}}
\end{equation}

The combination index is the sum where for a given relative effect of $X\%$,
$I_1$ and $I_2$ are the concentrations needed to individually induce the $X\%$
effect, $CI_1$ and $CI_2$ are the combined concentrations required for the same
effect. The combination index may be interpreted as less than 1 indicates
antagonism, equal to 1 indicates additive, and greater than 1 indicates
synergy [@Chou1984;@Michaud1996]. For the case of Bliss independence,
combination index will be determine by the difference between observed effect
compared to the multiplied effects from the constituent compounds individually.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

While it is difficult to predict when synergy may arise due to the incomplete
knowledge of all the pathways involved, the drug compounds are thought to act
on the calcification pathway at different levels, thus antagonism is not
expected. However, an important aspect of this proposed research is that when
results are unexpected, they may be the most fruitful in refining our knowledge
of the mechanisms at work.

Dipyridamole combined with ARA is expected to possibly have synergistic
effects.  Adenosine and adenosine analogs [@Zannikos2001] have been shown to be
rapidly be absorbed by the body. Dipyridamole should have little affect alone,
since there is expected to be little adenosine production in CD73 -/- cells.
However, it can be expected to greatly increase the extracellular half-life of
ARA, providing more capacity for adenosine signaling. On the other hand, ARA
with lansoprazole may only be additive in combination. ARA should reduce the
amount of TNAP expression, leaving lansoprasole with fewer enzymes to inhibit.
This mutually exclusive mechanism suggests that a Bliss independence model
could be a good fit. However, if synergy is discovered between ARA and any
other compound, it may indicate that ARA is actually affecting other
calcification regulatory networks, which would help direct future research
efforts in elucidating the role of adenosine signaling.

## Specific Aim 3

### Strategy and Rationale

This Aim proposes to harness the mechanistic exploration in Aim 1 and Aim 2 to
provide results for treating ACDC in a living organism. Leading up to Aim 3,
mechanistic knowledge on disease progression and therapeutic strategies will
build, thus increasing confidence in the efficacy of the treatments and
increasing efficiency of the research plan. For example, it may be discovered
that dipyridamole alone has negligible PD effect, but show significant synergy
when combined with an ARA. Thus, when the stakes are higher, in terms of
experimental resource expenditure, for *in vivo* experimentation, the
dipyridamole alone strategy will be lower priority than its use in a
combination therapy with ARA.

The major steps in this Aim are to establish a viable animal disease model,
optimize a dosing strategy using PK experiment data, and then finally
demonstrate and quantify efficacy.

CD73 knockout mice will naturally be the initial choice in building a disease
model. While MVC has not been observed in CD73 -/- mice [@Castrop2004], the
initial mouse study was performed several years before CD73 was implicated in
ectopic calcification. Significantly elevated levels of serum TNAP were noted
in the mice, which is consistent with the hypothesis TNAP overexpression
leading to PP~i~ depletion. Osteoporosis-like trabecular bone weakening has
also been reported in CD73 -/- mice [@Takedachi2012], which suggests there may
indeed be some dysregulation of mineralization. Furthermore, ENPP1 and ABCC6
knock mice have been confirmed to exhibit phenotypes that mirror the matching
conditions in humans. Considering the relatively less severe phenotype
associated with CD73 dysfunction, and significantly longer time before onset of
symptoms, it is possible that this phenotype was initially overlooked.
Therefore, this part of the research will begin by characterizing the ACDC
associated phenotype in CD73 knockout mice.

PK modeling will be performed using the animal model, administering dosage of
the compound and measuring serum and dialysate levels. Then, nonlinear
optimization algorithms will be used to fit parameters to the PK model. The PK
model will be used to create an integrated PK-PD model using the PD models
developed in Aim 2 (Figure \ref{fig:pkpd-derendorf}).

\begin{SCfigure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{images/pkpd-derendorf.png}
		\caption{\label{fig:pkpd-derendorf}A PK-PD model integrates
		relationships between where the drug goes the upon entering the body
		(PK) with the dose dependent effect the drug has on the body (PD).}
\end{SCfigure}

This PD dose-effect model will be directly coupled with the concentrations in
the effect compartment within a PK model. The general modeling approach that is
adopted in this proposal is to start as simple as reasonable and expand in
response to new data that suggests a more complicated system would be
appropriate. A single compartment PK model could be used as a starting point,
however, ACDC symptoms manifest in the peripheral regions of patients, which
suggest that perhaps a two-compartment model may be used. This will be pursued
if it provides a significantly better fit to the experimental data (Figure
\ref{fig:pkpd}). The PK-PD model will then be used for dose planning.

One rationale for using a PK-PD model for treatment planning in the animal
model is to allow the research to be translatable towards human therapy. Since
ACDC is a rare disease, there will be difficulty in finding clinical test
subjects. Therefore, a predictive PK-PD model may reduce the number of
clinical experiments necessary in humans. Furthermore, the validation of the
PK-PD model will also provide further confidence in the combination therapy
benefits discovered in Aim 2.

\begin{SCfigure}
	\centering
		\includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{images/pkpd.png}
		\caption{\label{fig:pkpd}Two-compartment PK model directly linked to PD
		model. Compartments V1 and V2 represent the circulating serum and the
		peripheral tissues that the drug is transported in to. Concentration of
		drug within the effect compartment, in this case V2, is directly fed
		into the PD model of drug dose response.}
\end{SCfigure}

### Experimental Plan

#### Establish ACDC Mouse Model

CD73 -/- mice will be purchased from The Jackson Laboratory
(<http://jaxmice.jax.org>) and housed until 6 months of age. To detect signs of
arterial calcification, the mice will be imaged using high resolution computed
tomography scans (micro-CT) [@Jorgensen1998] and compared to wildtype controls.
*Ex vivo* histology and staining of the vascular cells in the limbs will also
be performed to inspect for increased TNAP expression and signs of
calcification using similar methodology to the molecular profiling steps
proposed in Aim 1.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

Due to the relatively mild phenotype of ACDC compared to other calcification
diseases that are present at infancy, several variables may be tuned to induce
ACDC symptoms in mice. Mice may be allowed to age longer, for example to 12
months, as ACDC is not found in early life. The diet of the mouse may be
modified with higher phosphate and lower vitamin D content
[@Tani2007;@Shiota2011] in order to induce calcification.  Difficulties in
inducing the disease phenotype may indicate that the mice have additional
compensatory mechanisms that help to preserve homeostatsis, such as greater
endogenous adenosine generation. Calcification inducing conditions applied to
the CD73 knockout mice will be repeated with the wildtype controls, ideally
finding an optimal condition where MVC is readily observed in the knockout mice
but not observed in the control 

#### Develop Pharmacokinetic-Pharmacodynamic Model

PK models will be built by performing dosing known amounts of compounds into
the animals and measuring its rate of clearance from the blood stream. The
experimental setup will involve first cannulating the animals for drug infusion
and measurements during the procedure [@Tsai2010]. The animals will be hooked
up to a microdialysis system, where administration of the compound and sampling
of the blood and liver dialysates can be collected quickly. Upon drug infusion,
dialysate samples will be collected every ten minutes into a fraction
collector. A validated high performance liquid chromatography with
photodiode-array detector (HPLC-PDA) will be used to measure drug
concentrations in the samples.

The compartmental PK model parameters can then be fit from the experimental
data. Uncertainty analysis using the Latin Hypercube method, or a suitable
alternative, will be used to determine the uncertainty in the model predictions
given the model structure and experimental error.

PK-PD models will be produced by directly linking the effective exposure
compartment to the dose response relationship.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

The experimental portion of this step will require many optimization steps
along with significant training and experience to be able to conduct the
procedure. Validation on the detection system must be performed to ensure that
measurements are accurate. The drug infusion procedure will need to be
optimized for each drug, and several dosing concentrations will need to be used
to gather data for parameter fitting. It is then expected to see
exponential-like decay curves in the dialysate concentrations as drug is
absorbed and cleared. Difficulty in collecting data may also be addressed through
different measurement systems.

In the model fitting, some parameters such as elimination rates may be
approximated from literature, since the PK for all the compounds have been
previously studied. However, the PK data for our specific disease model and
dosing protocol does not exist, thus it is still desirable to measure these
parameters experimentally. It would also be advantageous to compare parameter
values with other PK models calculated from similar systems.

Building a predictive PK-PD model will likely need to be performed partially in
parallel with initial efficacy experiments in order to validate the PK
component of this of the model. This is due to that fact that the PK studies
may not provide enough information to produce an unambiguous PK model
structure. Additional compartments may be necessary to add in order to reflect
any observed delayed responses or reduced exposures. The current PK knowledge
of the compounds will also be used in this process. For example,
bisphosphonates are typically modeled using a three-compartment PK, due to its
rapid absorption by bone and following sustained release
[@Cremers2005;@Kimmel2007].

#### Conduct Dosing Plan on Mouse Model and Evaluate Efficacy

Single compound and combination therapy dosing regimes will be devised in
accordance to the PK-PD model and evaluated against the experimental efficacy
data. Dosing will be performed similarly to the PK studies, however, repeated
blood sampling may not be necessary. Similar to the dosing regime in the PD
studies, once daily administrations of the drugs will be performed for 21 days.
At the end of day 21, the mice will be analyzed using micro-CT (if effective in
detecting calcification) and sacrificed to perform *ex vivo* staining of their
VSMCs. The effectiveness of the treatment at various dosage levels will be
compared to the PK-PD model for further refinement of model structure and
parameters. Additional observations, such as dose toxicity in the animals, will
be monitored and used to inform the model.

##### Expected Results and Proposed Alternatives

In the initial rounds of dose planning using the PK-PD model, there is likely
to be significant modifications to the model that will be made due to
discrepancy in the predictions and simulation. However, through iterative
changes in model structure, parameters, and model complexity, the predictive
capabilities of the model are expected to be improved over time. Due to the
overwhelming number of experimental conditions possible, especially with
combination therapies, this iterative model development and feedback will
likely prove to be a very useful approach. Experimental procedures may also
need to be adjusted, and further *in vitro* experimentation may be needed to
explain inconsistencies. If the dose effect itself is difficult to quantify *in
vivo*, it may be necessary to revise the PD models to use a measure of efficacy
that is more consistent across whole animals and cell culture. For example,
levels of PP~i~ and P~i~ may serve as a surrogate calcification index. Enough
data should be collected in the cell culture PD experiments to be able to
re-tune the model to fit a different set of efficacy criteria, but more PD
experimentation may be necessary even at this later stage of the research plan.

# Summary and Future Directions

NT5E mutations leading to defective CD73 protein results in the onset of ACDC,
a painful condition of limb and joint calcification. This is a debilitating
disease with no known cure. Recent studies have suggested that the CD73 plays a
role in providing adenosine signaling which keeps the body's calcification
mechanisms in check. However, detailed knowledge on how the signaling mechanism
functions and what possible drug treatments may be effective in combating the
disease is currently lacking. This proposal outlines the systematic
investigation of the biomolecular mechanisms behind the presentation of ACDC
and drug interventions to bridge the knowledge gaps. PK-PD modeling, built from
*in vitro* and *in vivo* data will be employed to characterize the
relationships between drug treatment and efficacy. Furthermore, due to the
complex combinatorial control of this disease pathway, a combination drug
therapy approach will be investigated for optimizing treatment potency while
reducing the risk of high dosages that may lead to safety complications. PK-PD
modeling will be used to plan and administer treatment in an animal model, with
the aim of ultimately aiding in the personalized treatment planning of affected
patients. Furthermore, the knowledge and methodologies developed in this
research proposal may also be applicable to supporting the understanding and
treatment of an entire family of ectopic calcification diseases, such as GACI
and PXE.

\newpage

# References
